terraform/tutorial.md, before:

# Cloudbuild Trigger Build - Terraform

## Setup

Welcome to the deployment tutorial for CSV to Firestore.

The CSV to Firestore solution takes a CSV file from a Cloud Storage bucket,
parses it and sends it to Firestore. The solution is automatically triggered
when a new file is uploaded in the Cloud Storage bucket. In order to serve a
variety of applications, the solution allows you to (1) select which cloud
bucket to use, (2) specify to which collection to send the data and (3) if you
want to use a specific column as document id.

## Cloud Project

To start we need to select the Google Cloud Project to deploy the solution in.
Terraform provisions real GCP resources, so anything you create in this session
will be billed against this project.
<walkthrough-project-setup></walkthrough-project-setup>

Click the Cloud Shell icon below to copy the command to your shell, and then run
it from the shell by pressing Enter/Return. Terraform will pick up the project
name from the environment variable.

```bash
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<walkthrough-project-id/>
```

## Prepare environment

Google Cloud Project: <walkthrough-project-id/>

Before we run terraform we need to set a couple of variables, let's open the
example.tfvars file and configure them. The file should be open already, if it
isn't, click the link below.

<walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="example.tfvars">Open
example.tfvars</walkthrough-editor-open-file>

You need to fill in the following variables

Variable                    | Description
--------------------------- | -----------
gcp_project                 | Google Cloud Project ID: <walkthrough-project-id/>
gcp_bucket_location         | [Google Cloud Storage Bucket location](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/locations)
gcp_region_cloud_function   | [Google Cloud Function location](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/locations)
gcp_region_scheduler        | [Google Cloud Scheduler location](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/locations)
gcp_region_workflow         | [Google Cloud Workflows location](https://cloud.google.com/workflows/docs/locations)
gcs_cf_upload               | Name of the Google Cloud Bucket from where the Cloud Function will be deployed. Terraform will upload the code to this bucket and deploy the cloud function from there.
gcs_export_bucket           | Google Cloud Storage Bucket where the BigQuery table will be exported to.
fs_collection               | Firestore Collection ID, the cloud function will store all rows into this collection.
csv_key_column              | Column in the CSV file that is used as document ID in Firestore.
bq_dataset                  | BigQuery Dataset ID
bq_table                    | BigQuery Table to be imported in Firestore
bq_export_schedule          | [Cron schedule](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler/docs/configuring/cron-job-schedules)
bq_export_schedule_timezone | [Cron schedule timezone](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler/docs/configuring/cron-job-schedules#time_zone)

After that, let's get Terraform started.

## Terraforming

Run the following to pull in the providers.

```bash
terraform init
```

With the providers downloaded and a project set, you're ready to use Terraform.
Go ahead!

```bash
terraform apply -var-file=example.tfvars
```

Terraform will show you what it plans to do, and prompt you to accept. Type
"yes" to accept the plan.

```bash
yes
```

Terraform will now take some time to deploy the solution for you with the
configuration specified in the example.tfvars file. Terraform will keep a state
in this cloud shell environment, so if you update/change the configuration
settings and run terrafom apply command again it will update all resources
accordingly.

If you want to remove the deployed resources from Google Cloud Platform again
you can run the following command.

```bash
terraform destroy -var-file=example.tfvars
```

Commit message:

Add a description of Terraform to the tutorial
Change-Id: I6410b131523ead8281d464046ecb938f80cfc042

terraform/tutorial.md, after:

# Cloudbuild Trigger Build - Terraform

## Setup

Welcome to the deployment tutorial for CSV to Firestore.

The CSV to Firestore solution takes a CSV file from a Cloud Storage bucket,
parses it and sends it to Firestore. The solution is automatically triggered
when a new file is uploaded in the Cloud Storage bucket. In order to serve a
variety of applications, the solution allows you to (1) select which cloud
bucket to use, (2) specify to which collection to send the data and (3) if you
want to use a specific column as document id.

## Cloud Project

To start we need to select the Google Cloud Project to deploy the solution in.

We'll be using Terraform to deploy solution on Google Cloud, Terraform is an
open Source tool to safely and predictably deploy infrastructure from code.

Terraform provisions real GCP resources, so anything you create in this session
will be billed against this project.
<walkthrough-project-setup></walkthrough-project-setup>

Click the Cloud Shell icon below to copy the command to your shell, and then run
it from the shell by pressing Enter/Return. Terraform will pick up the project
name from the environment variable.

```bash
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<walkthrough-project-id/>
```

## Prepare environment

Google Cloud Project: <walkthrough-project-id/>

Before we run terraform we need to set a couple of variables, let's open the
example.tfvars file and configure them. The file should be open already, if it
isn't, click the link below.

<walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="example.tfvars">Open
example.tfvars</walkthrough-editor-open-file>

You need to fill in the following variables

Variable                    | Description
--------------------------- | -----------
gcp_project                 | Google Cloud Project ID: <walkthrough-project-id/>
gcp_bucket_location         | [Google Cloud Storage Bucket location](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/locations)
gcp_region_cloud_function   | [Google Cloud Function location](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/locations)
gcp_region_scheduler        | [Google Cloud Scheduler location](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/locations)
gcp_region_workflow         | [Google Cloud Workflows location](https://cloud.google.com/workflows/docs/locations)
gcs_cf_upload               | Name of the Google Cloud Bucket from where the Cloud Function will be deployed. Terraform will upload the code to this bucket and deploy the cloud function from there.
gcs_export_bucket           | Google Cloud Storage Bucket where the BigQuery table will be exported to.
fs_collection               | Firestore Collection ID, the cloud function will store all rows into this collection.
csv_key_column              | Column in the CSV file that is used as document ID in Firestore.
bq_dataset                  | BigQuery Dataset ID
bq_table                    | BigQuery Table to be imported in Firestore
bq_export_schedule          | [Cron schedule](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler/docs/configuring/cron-job-schedules)
bq_export_schedule_timezone | [Cron schedule timezone](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler/docs/configuring/cron-job-schedules#time_zone)

After that, let's get Terraform started.

## Terraforming

Run the following to pull in the providers.

```bash
terraform init
```

With the providers downloaded and a project set, you're ready to use Terraform.
Go ahead!

```bash
terraform apply -var-file=example.tfvars
```

Terraform will show you what it plans to do, and prompt you to accept. Type
"yes" to accept the plan.

```bash
yes
```

Terraform will now take some time to deploy the solution for you with the
configuration specified in the example.tfvars file. Terraform will keep a state
in this cloud shell environment, so if you update/change the configuration
settings and run terrafom apply command again it will update all resources
accordingly.

If you want to remove the deployed resources from Google Cloud Platform again
you can run the following command.

```bash
terraform destroy -var-file=example.tfvars
```
